---
path: "/about/concepts"
title: "Key concepts"
---
## Galasa testing
Galasa offers automated and scalable scheduling and execution of reliable, repeatable tests. 

## Galasa test class
A simple Java program that tests a discrete piece of function, using facilities provided by the Galasa framework to streamline and simplify the test code.

## Galasa test
A Galasa test is made up of one or more Java classes and can contain several method types.

## Java class
A Java .class file is the compiled executable version of the .java source file created by a user. Each time a change is made to the .java source file and saved, the executable version is automatically updated as well. Galasa .java source files contain the annotation @CICSTest to indicate that this is a Galasa .class file rather than a normal Java .class file.

## Galasa methods
A method is a subroutine within a Galasa test class which is run to perform a function. For example, a test method executes the code under test and usually relates to an individual test case. To define that a certain method is a test method, use the @Test annotation.

Other methods are specially designated to run before (methods annotated with the @Before annotation) or after (methods annotated with the @After annotation) a test method. These methods are used to ensure that your environment is in a usable state before the next test method is called, particularly useful when the preceding test method has exited in an unexpected state. 

## Galasa annotations
Galasa uses annotations, which take the form @Annotation or @Annotation(arg1,...,argN). Annotations provide non-programmatic information to the test runner about the test class, or its components.

Annotations are used on the class to provide information to the test server about the environment setup and about the test. This information is  used to prioritise or categorise tests. Annotations on methods within a test designate those methods as test methods and there are also 'resource annotations' which indicate to the test runner that it needs to provide the test with certain resources, for example, terminals, userids or ports. To find out more about Galasa annotations, see *here*.

## Galasa assertions
Assertions, or asserts, provide a way of validating the intended behaviour of the code or application under test. Use an assert method to check whether the expected result matches the actual result that is generated by running a test method. The assertion library that is provided as part of Galasa helps you compare the expected against the actual results so you can determine whether your test has passed or failed. You can look at some examples of asserts *here*.
  
## Galasa test runner
A test runner is a tool that can find the methods marked as tests in your source code and run that code block. 
 
## Galasa automation
You can run Galasa tests locally on your laptop or remotely on a server. Running tests on your laptop is a great way of debugging the code you are testing as you can insert breakpoints and step through the lines of code to find the cause of a failure. If you want to run tests in parallel, at scale, or overnight then you can schedule them to run automatically on a server. 

## Galasa test catalog
A list of related test which can contain common initialization and clean up routines specific to the tests included in that list. For information about how to tag your Galasa tests in a meaningful way to enable the effective creation of a test catalog, see *here*.
  
## Galasa Javadoc  
Because  Galasa uses Java, there is support for Javadoc in Galasa code and in the tests. Javadoc is essentially a beefed-up form of commenting. Galasa standards require all classes and methods to use Javadoc. As with all code it is recommended to include meaningful comments for easier understanding and maintainability. You can view the Galasa Javadoc *here* and there are *guidelines* on how to create it.  

## Galasa's concept of Managers
Complex, repetitive, commonly-required code is abstracted out of tests and into Galasa Managers. A Galasa Manager provides an interface that enables you to control, provision and use an application, tool or product.

A Manager focuses only on its specific application, tool or product, which means that each Manager is responsible for a specific aspect of the test environment. For example, the CICS Manager manages the CICS resources for each CICS region, and the z/OS batch Manager is responsible for running batch jobs.

The various Managers work with each other to perform a joint task by sharing information and calling on other Managers to complete tasks. This work is coordinated by the Galasa Framework. Look at our *recipes* to see some useful Manager combinations.

Managers reduce the amount of boilerplate code within a test. The test code becomes simpler and easier to write, understand, and maintain and the focus of a test's development shifts to validating application changes, rather than marshalling environmental resources.


## What's next?
Galasa provides a [suite of Managers](../docs/reference/managers) for interfacing with common tools, products and operating systems. More Managers will be available in future releases. If you have an idea for a Manager that you would really like to see developed, let us know on _Slack_. Alternatively, you can write your own Managers for your own applications, and _here are some examples_ that can help you get started. Share your Managers with the _Community_ – we’d love to see what you come up with! Check out the _contributor guidelines here_ and let's start making cool Galasa stuff together!



